Chapter VI

Jungle Battles


The wanderings of the tribe brought them often near the closed and
silent cabin by the little land-locked harbor.  To Tarzan this was
always a source of never-ending mystery and pleasure.

He would peek into the curtained windows, or, climbing upon the roof,
peer down the black depths of the chimney in vain endeavor to solve the
unknown wonders that lay within those strong walls.

His child-like imagination pictured wonderful creatures within, and the
very impossibility of forcing entrance added a thousandfold to his
desire to do so.

He could clamber about the roof and windows for hours attempting to
discover means of ingress, but to the door he paid little attention,
for this was apparently as solid as the walls.

It was in the next visit to the vicinity, following the adventure with
old Sabor, that, as he approached the cabin, Tarzan noticed that from a
distance the door appeared to be an independent part of the wall in
which it was set, and for the first time it occurred to him that this
might prove the means of entrance which had so long eluded him.

He was alone, as was often the case when he visited the cabin, for the
apes had no love for it; the story of the thunder-stick having lost
nothing in the telling during these ten years had quite surrounded the
white man's deserted abode with an atmosphere of weirdness and terror
for the simians.

The story of his own connection with the cabin had never been told him.
The language of the apes had so few words that they could talk but
little of what they had seen in the cabin, having no words to
accurately describe either the strange people or their belongings, and
so, long before Tarzan was old enough to understand, the subject had
been forgotten by the tribe.

Only in a dim, vague way had Kala explained to him that his father had
been a strange white ape, but he did not know that Kala was not his own
mother.

On this day, then, he went directly to the door and spent hours
examining it and fussing with the hinges, the knob and the latch.
Finally he stumbled upon the right combination, and the door swung
creakingly open before his astonished eyes.

For some minutes he did not dare venture within, but finally, as his
eyes became accustomed to the dim light of the interior he slowly and
cautiously entered.

In the middle of the floor lay a skeleton, every vestige of flesh gone
from the bones to which still clung the mildewed and moldered remnants
of what had once been clothing.  Upon the bed lay a similar gruesome
thing, but smaller, while in a tiny cradle near-by was a third, a wee
mite of a skeleton.

To none of these evidences of a fearful tragedy of a long dead day did
little Tarzan give but passing heed.  His wild jungle life had inured
him to the sight of dead and dying animals, and had he known that he
was looking upon the remains of his own father and mother he would have
been no more greatly moved.

The furnishings and other contents of the room it was which riveted his
attention.  He examined many things minutely--strange tools and
weapons, books, paper, clothing--what little had withstood the ravages
of time in the humid atmosphere of the jungle coast.

He opened chests and cupboards, such as did not baffle his small
experience, and in these he found the contents much better preserved.

Among other things he found a sharp hunting knife, on the keen blade of
which he immediately proceeded to cut his finger.  Undaunted he
continued his experiments, finding that he could hack and hew splinters
of wood from the table and chairs with this new toy.

For a long time this amused him, but finally tiring he continued his
explorations.  In a cupboard filled with books he came across one with
brightly colored pictures--it was a child's illustrated alphabet--

              A is for Archer
              Who shoots with a bow.
              B is for Boy,
              His first name is Joe.


The pictures interested him greatly.

There were many apes with faces similar to his own, and further over in
the book he found, under "M," some little monkeys such as he saw daily
flitting through the trees of his primeval forest.  But nowhere was
pictured any of his own people; in all the book was none that resembled
Kerchak, or Tublat, or Kala.

At first he tried to pick the little figures from the leaves, but he
soon saw that they were not real, though he knew not what they might
be, nor had he any words to describe them.

The boats, and trains, and cows and horses were quite meaningless to
him, but not quite so baffling as the odd little figures which appeared
beneath and between the colored pictures--some strange kind of bug he
thought they might be, for many of them had legs though nowhere could
he find one with eyes and a mouth.  It was his first introduction to
the letters of the alphabet, and he was over ten years old.

Of course he had never before seen print, or ever had spoken with any
living thing which had the remotest idea that such a thing as a written
language existed, nor ever had he seen anyone reading.

So what wonder that the little boy was quite at a loss to guess the
meaning of these strange figures.

Near the middle of the book he found his old enemy, Sabor, the lioness,
and further on, coiled Histah, the snake.

Oh, it was most engrossing!  Never before in all his ten years had he
enjoyed anything so much.  So absorbed was he that he did not note the
approaching dusk, until it was quite upon him and the figures were
blurred.

He put the book back in the cupboard and closed the door, for he did
not wish anyone else to find and destroy his treasure, and as he went
out into the gathering darkness he closed the great door of the cabin
behind him as it had been before he discovered the secret of its lock,
but before he left he had noticed the hunting knife lying where he had
thrown it upon the floor, and this he picked up and took with him to
show to his fellows.

He had taken scarce a dozen steps toward the jungle when a great form
rose up before him from the shadows of a low bush.  At first he thought
it was one of his own people but in another instant he realized that it
was Bolgani, the huge gorilla.

So close was he that there was no chance for flight and little Tarzan
knew that he must stand and fight for his life; for these great beasts
were the deadly enemies of his tribe, and neither one nor the other
ever asked or gave quarter.

Had Tarzan been a full-grown bull ape of the species of his tribe he
would have been more than a match for the gorilla, but being only a
little English boy, though enormously muscular for such, he stood no
chance against his cruel antagonist.  In his veins, though, flowed the
blood of the best of a race of mighty fighters, and back of this was
the training of his short lifetime among the fierce brutes of the
jungle.

He knew no fear, as we know it; his little heart beat the faster but
from the excitement and exhilaration of adventure.  Had the opportunity
presented itself he would have escaped, but solely because his judgment
told him he was no match for the great thing which confronted him.  And
since reason showed him that successful flight was impossible he met
the gorilla squarely and bravely without a tremor of a single muscle,
or any sign of panic.

In fact he met the brute midway in its charge, striking its huge body
with his closed fists and as futilely as he had been a fly attacking an
elephant.  But in one hand he still clutched the knife he had found in
the cabin of his father, and as the brute, striking and biting, closed
upon him the boy accidentally turned the point toward the hairy breast.
As the knife sank deep into its body the gorilla shrieked in pain and
rage.

But the boy had learned in that brief second a use for his sharp and
shining toy, so that, as the tearing, striking beast dragged him to
earth he plunged the blade repeatedly and to the hilt into its breast.

The gorilla, fighting after the manner of its kind, struck terrific
blows with its open hand, and tore the flesh at the boy's throat and
chest with its mighty tusks.

For a moment they rolled upon the ground in the fierce frenzy of
combat.  More and more weakly the torn and bleeding arm struck home
with the long sharp blade, then the little figure stiffened with a
spasmodic jerk, and Tarzan, the young Lord Greystoke, rolled
unconscious upon the dead and decaying vegetation which carpeted his
jungle home.

A mile back in the forest the tribe had heard the fierce challenge of
the gorilla, and, as was his custom when any danger threatened, Kerchak
called his people together, partly for mutual protection against a
common enemy, since this gorilla might be but one of a party of
several, and also to see that all members of the tribe were accounted
for.

It was soon discovered that Tarzan was missing, and Tublat was strongly
opposed to sending assistance.  Kerchak himself had no liking for the
strange little waif, so he listened to Tublat, and, finally, with a
shrug of his shoulders, turned back to the pile of leaves on which he
had made his bed.

But Kala was of a different mind; in fact, she had not waited but to
learn that Tarzan was absent ere she was fairly flying through the
matted branches toward the point from which the cries of the gorilla
were still plainly audible.

Darkness had now fallen, and an early moon was sending its faint light
to cast strange, grotesque shadows among the dense foliage of the
forest.

Here and there the brilliant rays penetrated to earth, but for the most
part they only served to accentuate the Stygian blackness of the
jungle's depths.

Like some huge phantom, Kala swung noiselessly from tree to tree; now
running nimbly along a great branch, now swinging through space at the
end of another, only to grasp that of a farther tree in her rapid
progress toward the scene of the tragedy her knowledge of jungle life
told her was being enacted a short distance before her.

The cries of the gorilla proclaimed that it was in mortal combat with
some other denizen of the fierce wood.  Suddenly these cries ceased,
and the silence of death reigned throughout the jungle.

Kala could not understand, for the voice of Bolgani had at last been
raised in the agony of suffering and death, but no sound had come to
her by which she possibly could determine the nature of his antagonist.

That her little Tarzan could destroy a great bull gorilla she knew to
be improbable, and so, as she neared the spot from which the sounds of
the struggle had come, she moved more warily and at last slowly and
with extreme caution she traversed the lowest branches, peering eagerly
into the moon-splashed blackness for a sign of the combatants.

Presently she came upon them, lying in a little open space full under
the brilliant light of the moon--little Tarzan's torn and bloody form,
and beside it a great bull gorilla, stone dead.

With a low cry Kala rushed to Tarzan's side, and gathering the poor,
blood-covered body to her breast, listened for a sign of life.  Faintly
she heard it--the weak beating of the little heart.

Tenderly she bore him back through the inky jungle to where the tribe
lay, and for many days and nights she sat guard beside him, bringing
him food and water, and brushing the flies and other insects from his
cruel wounds.

Of medicine or surgery the poor thing knew nothing.  She could but lick
the wounds, and thus she kept them cleansed, that healing nature might
the more quickly do her work.

At first Tarzan would eat nothing, but rolled and tossed in a wild
delirium of fever.  All he craved was water, and this she brought him
in the only way she could, bearing it in her own mouth.

No human mother could have shown more unselfish and sacrificing
devotion than did this poor, wild brute for the little orphaned waif
whom fate had thrown into her keeping.

At last the fever abated and the boy commenced to mend.  No word of
complaint passed his tight set lips, though the pain of his wounds was
excruciating.

A portion of his chest was laid bare to the ribs, three of which had
been broken by the mighty blows of the gorilla.  One arm was nearly
severed by the giant fangs, and a great piece had been torn from his
neck, exposing his jugular vein, which the cruel jaws had missed but by
a miracle.

With the stoicism of the brutes who had raised him he endured his
suffering quietly, preferring to crawl away from the others and lie
huddled in some clump of tall grasses rather than to show his misery
before their eyes.

Kala, alone, he was glad to have with him, but now that he was better
she was gone longer at a time, in search of food; for the devoted
animal had scarcely eaten enough to support her own life while Tarzan
had been so low, and was in consequence, reduced to a mere shadow of
her former self.




Chapter VII

The Light of Knowledge


After what seemed an eternity to the little sufferer he was able to
walk once more, and from then on his recovery was so rapid that in
another month he was as strong and active as ever.

During his convalescence he had gone over in his mind many times the
battle with the gorilla, and his first thought was to recover the
wonderful little weapon which had transformed him from a hopelessly
outclassed weakling to the superior of the mighty terror of the jungle.

Also, he was anxious to return to the cabin and continue his
investigations of its wondrous contents.

So, early one morning, he set forth alone upon his quest.  After a
little search he located the clean-picked bones of his late adversary,
and close by, partly buried beneath the fallen leaves, he found the
knife, now red with rust from its exposure to the dampness of the
ground and from the dried blood of the gorilla.

He did not like the change in its former bright and gleaming surface;
but it was still a formidable weapon, and one which he meant to use to
advantage whenever the opportunity presented itself.  He had in mind
that no more would he run from the wanton attacks of old Tublat.

In another moment he was at the cabin, and after a short time had again
thrown the latch and entered.  His first concern was to learn the
mechanism of the lock, and this he did by examining it closely while
the door was open, so that he could learn precisely what caused it to
hold the door, and by what means it released at his touch.

He found that he could close and lock the door from within, and this he
did so that there would be no chance of his being molested while at his
investigation.

He commenced a systematic search of the cabin; but his attention was
soon riveted by the books which seemed to exert a strange and powerful
influence over him, so that he could scarce attend to aught else for
the lure of the wondrous puzzle which their purpose presented to him.

Among the other books were a primer, some child's readers, numerous
picture books, and a great dictionary.  All of these he examined, but
the pictures caught his fancy most, though the strange little bugs
which covered the pages where there were no pictures excited his wonder
and deepest thought.

Squatting upon his haunches on the table top in the cabin his father
had built--his smooth, brown, naked little body bent over the book
which rested in his strong slender hands, and his great shock of long,
black hair falling about his well-shaped head and bright, intelligent
eyes--Tarzan of the apes, little primitive man, presented a picture
filled, at once, with pathos and with promise--an allegorical figure of
the primordial groping through the black night of ignorance toward the
light of learning.

His little face was tense in study, for he had partially grasped, in a
hazy, nebulous way, the rudiments of a thought which was destined to
prove the key and the solution to the puzzling problem of the strange
little bugs.

In his hands was a primer opened at a picture of a little ape similar
to himself, but covered, except for hands and face, with strange,
colored fur, for such he thought the jacket and trousers to be.
Beneath the picture were three little bugs--

              BOY.


And now he had discovered in the text upon the page that these three
were repeated many times in the same sequence.

Another fact he learned--that there were comparatively few individual
bugs; but these were repeated many times, occasionally alone, but more
often in company with others.

Slowly he turned the pages, scanning the pictures and the text for a
repetition of the combination B-O-Y.  Presently he found it beneath a
picture of another little ape and a strange animal which went upon four
legs like the jackal and resembled him not a little.  Beneath this
picture the bugs appeared as:

              A BOY AND A DOG


There they were, the three little bugs which always accompanied the
little ape.

And so he progressed very, very slowly, for it was a hard and laborious
task which he had set himself without knowing it--a task which might
seem to you or me impossible--learning to read without having the
slightest knowledge of letters or written language, or the faintest
idea that such things existed.

He did not accomplish it in a day, or in a week, or in a month, or in a
year; but slowly, very slowly, he learned after he had grasped the
possibilities which lay in those little bugs, so that by the time he
was fifteen he knew the various combinations of letters which stood for
every pictured figure in the little primer and in one or two of the
picture books.

Of the meaning and use of the articles and conjunctions, verbs and
adverbs and pronouns he had but the faintest conception.

One day when he was about twelve he found a number of lead pencils in a
hitherto undiscovered drawer beneath the table, and in scratching upon
the table top with one of them he was delighted to discover the black
line it left behind it.

He worked so assiduously with this new toy that the table top was soon
a mass of scrawly loops and irregular lines and his pencil-point worn
down to the wood.  Then he took another pencil, but this time he had a
definite object in view.

He would attempt to reproduce some of the little bugs that scrambled
over the pages of his books.

It was a difficult task, for he held the pencil as one would grasp the
hilt of a dagger, which does not add greatly to ease in writing or to
the legibility of the results.

But he persevered for months, at such times as he was able to come to
the cabin, until at last by repeated experimenting he found a position
in which to hold the pencil that best permitted him to guide and
control it, so that at last he could roughly reproduce any of the
little bugs.

Thus he made a beginning of writing.

Copying the bugs taught him another thing--their number; and though he
could not count as we understand it, yet he had an idea of quantity,
the base of his calculations being the number of fingers upon one of
his hands.

His search through the various books convinced him that he had
discovered all the different kinds of bugs most often repeated in
combination, and these he arranged in proper order with great ease
because of the frequency with which he had perused the fascinating
alphabet picture book.

His education progressed; but his greatest finds were in the
inexhaustible storehouse of the huge illustrated dictionary, for he
learned more through the medium of pictures than text, even after he
had grasped the significance of the bugs.

When he discovered the arrangement of words in alphabetical order he
delighted in searching for and finding the combinations with which he
was familiar, and the words which followed them, their definitions, led
him still further into the mazes of erudition.

By the time he was seventeen he had learned to read the simple, child's
primer and had fully realized the true and wonderful purpose of the
little bugs.

No longer did he feel shame for his hairless body or his human
features, for now his reason told him that he was of a different race
from his wild and hairy companions.  He was a M-A-N, they were A-P-E-S,
and the little apes which scurried through the forest top were
M-O-N-K-E-Y-S.  He knew, too, that old Sabor was a L-I-O-N-E-S-S, and
Histah a S-N-A-K-E, and Tantor an E-L-E-P-H-A-N-T.  And so he learned
to read.  From then on his progress was rapid.  With the help of the
great dictionary and the active intelligence of a healthy mind endowed
by inheritance with more than ordinary reasoning powers he shrewdly
guessed at much which he could not really understand, and more often
than not his guesses were close to the mark of truth.

There were many breaks in his education, caused by the migratory habits
of his tribe, but even when removed from his books his active brain
continued to search out the mysteries of his fascinating avocation.

Pieces of bark and flat leaves and even smooth stretches of bare earth
provided him with copy books whereon to scratch with the point of his
hunting knife the lessons he was learning.

Nor did he neglect the sterner duties of life while following the bent
of his inclination toward the solving of the mystery of his library.

He practiced with his rope and played with his sharp knife, which he
had learned to keep keen by whetting upon flat stones.

The tribe had grown larger since Tarzan had come among them, for under
the leadership of Kerchak they had been able to frighten the other
tribes from their part of the jungle so that they had plenty to eat and
little or no loss from predatory incursions of neighbors.

Hence the younger males as they became adult found it more comfortable
to take mates from their own tribe, or if they captured one of another
tribe to bring her back to Kerchak's band and live in amity with him
rather than attempt to set up new establishments of their own, or fight
with the redoubtable Kerchak for supremacy at home.

Occasionally one more ferocious than his fellows would attempt this
latter alternative, but none had come yet who could wrest the palm of
victory from the fierce and brutal ape.

Tarzan held a peculiar position in the tribe.  They seemed to consider
him one of them and yet in some way different.  The older males either
ignored him entirely or else hated him so vindictively that but for his
wondrous agility and speed and the fierce protection of the huge Kala
he would have been dispatched at an early age.

Tublat was his most consistent enemy, but it was through Tublat that,
when he was about thirteen, the persecution of his enemies suddenly
ceased and he was left severely alone, except on the occasions when one
of them ran amuck in the throes of one of those strange, wild fits of
insane rage which attacks the males of many of the fiercer animals of
the jungle.  Then none was safe.

On the day that Tarzan established his right to respect, the tribe was
gathered about a small natural amphitheater which the jungle had left
free from its entangling vines and creepers in a hollow among some low
hills.

The open space was almost circular in shape.  Upon every hand rose the
mighty giants of the untouched forest, with the matted undergrowth
banked so closely between the huge trunks that the only opening into
the little, level arena was through the upper branches of the trees.

Here, safe from interruption, the tribe often gathered.  In the center
of the amphitheater was one of those strange earthen drums which the
anthropoids build for the queer rites the sounds of which men have
heard in the fastnesses of the jungle, but which none has ever
witnessed.

Many travelers have seen the drums of the great apes, and some have
heard the sounds of their beating and the noise of the wild, weird
revelry of these first lords of the jungle, but Tarzan, Lord Greystoke,
is, doubtless, the only human being who ever joined in the fierce, mad,
intoxicating revel of the Dum-Dum.

From this primitive function has arisen, unquestionably, all the forms
and ceremonials of modern church and state, for through all the
countless ages, back beyond the uttermost ramparts of a dawning
humanity our fierce, hairy forebears danced out the rites of the
Dum-Dum to the sound of their earthen drums, beneath the bright light
of a tropical moon in the depth of a mighty jungle which stands
unchanged today as it stood on that long forgotten night in the dim,
unthinkable vistas of the long dead past when our first shaggy ancestor
swung from a swaying bough and dropped lightly upon the soft turf of
the first meeting place.

On the day that Tarzan won his emancipation from the persecution that
had followed him remorselessly for twelve of his thirteen years of
life, the tribe, now a full hundred strong, trooped silently through
the lower terrace of the jungle trees and dropped noiselessly upon the
floor of the amphitheater.

The rites of the Dum-Dum marked important events in the life of the
tribe--a victory, the capture of a prisoner, the killing of some large
fierce denizen of the jungle, the death or accession of a king, and
were conducted with set ceremonialism.

Today it was the killing of a giant ape, a member of another tribe, and
as the people of Kerchak entered the arena two mighty bulls were seen
bearing the body of the vanquished between them.

They laid their burden before the earthen drum and then squatted there
beside it as guards, while the other members of the community curled
themselves in grassy nooks to sleep until the rising moon should give
the signal for the commencement of their savage orgy.

For hours absolute quiet reigned in the little clearing, except as it
was broken by the discordant notes of brilliantly feathered parrots, or
the screeching and twittering of the thousand jungle birds flitting
ceaselessly amongst the vivid orchids and flamboyant blossoms which
festooned the myriad, moss-covered branches of the forest kings.

At length as darkness settled upon the jungle the apes commenced to
bestir themselves, and soon they formed a great circle about the
earthen drum.  The females and young squatted in a thin line at the
outer periphery of the circle, while just in front of them ranged the
adult males.  Before the drum sat three old females, each armed with a
knotted branch fifteen or eighteen inches in length.

Slowly and softly they began tapping upon the resounding surface of the
drum as the first faint rays of the ascending moon silvered the
encircling tree tops.

As the light in the amphitheater increased the females augmented the
frequency and force of their blows until presently a wild, rhythmic din
pervaded the great jungle for miles in every direction.  Huge, fierce
brutes stopped in their hunting, with up-pricked ears and raised heads,
to listen to the dull booming that betokened the Dum-Dum of the apes.

Occasionally one would raise his shrill scream or thunderous roar in
answering challenge to the savage din of the anthropoids, but none came
near to investigate or attack, for the great apes, assembled in all the
power of their numbers, filled the breasts of their jungle neighbors
with deep respect.

As the din of the drum rose to almost deafening volume Kerchak sprang
into the open space between the squatting males and the drummers.

Standing erect he threw his head far back and looking full into the eye
of the rising moon he beat upon his breast with his great hairy paws
and emitted his fearful roaring shriek.

One--twice--thrice that terrifying cry rang out across the teeming
solitude of that unspeakably quick, yet unthinkably dead, world.

Then, crouching, Kerchak slunk noiselessly around the open circle,
veering far away from the dead body lying before the altar-drum, but,
as he passed, keeping his little, fierce, wicked, red eyes upon the
corpse.

Another male then sprang into the arena, and, repeating the horrid
cries of his king, followed stealthily in his wake.  Another and
another followed in quick succession until the jungle reverberated with
the now almost ceaseless notes of their bloodthirsty screams.

It was the challenge and the hunt.

When all the adult males had joined in the thin line of circling
dancers the attack commenced.

Kerchak, seizing a huge club from the pile which lay at hand for the
purpose, rushed furiously upon the dead ape, dealing the corpse a
terrific blow, at the same time emitting the growls and snarls of
combat.  The din of the drum was now increased, as well as the
frequency of the blows, and the warriors, as each approached the victim
of the hunt and delivered his bludgeon blow, joined in the mad whirl of
the Death Dance.

Tarzan was one of the wild, leaping horde.  His brown, sweat-streaked,
muscular body, glistening in the moonlight, shone supple and graceful
among the uncouth, awkward, hairy brutes about him.

None was more stealthy in the mimic hunt, none more ferocious than he
in the wild ferocity of the attack, none who leaped so high into the
air in the Dance of Death.

As the noise and rapidity of the drumbeats increased the dancers
apparently became intoxicated with the wild rhythm and the savage
yells.  Their leaps and bounds increased, their bared fangs dripped
saliva, and their lips and breasts were flecked with foam.

For half an hour the weird dance went on, until, at a sign from
Kerchak, the noise of the drums ceased, the female drummers scampering
hurriedly through the line of dancers toward the outer rim of squatting
spectators.  Then, as one, the males rushed headlong upon the thing
which their terrific blows had reduced to a mass of hairy pulp.

Flesh seldom came to their jaws in satisfying quantities, so a fit
finale to their wild revel was a taste of fresh killed meat, and it was
to the purpose of devouring their late enemy that they now turned their
attention.

Great fangs sunk into the carcass tearing away huge hunks, the
mightiest of the apes obtaining the choicest morsels, while the weaker
circled the outer edge of the fighting, snarling pack awaiting their
chance to dodge in and snatch a dropped tidbit or filch a remaining
bone before all was gone.

Tarzan, more than the apes, craved and needed flesh.  Descended from a
race of meat eaters, never in his life, he thought, had he once
satisfied his appetite for animal food; and so now his agile little
body wormed its way far into the mass of struggling, rending apes in an
endeavor to obtain a share which his strength would have been unequal
to the task of winning for him.

At his side hung the hunting knife of his unknown father in a sheath
self-fashioned in copy of one he had seen among the pictures of his
treasure-books.

At last he reached the fast disappearing feast and with his sharp knife
slashed off a more generous portion than he had hoped for, an entire
hairy forearm, where it protruded from beneath the feet of the mighty
Kerchak, who was so busily engaged in perpetuating the royal
prerogative of gluttony that he failed to note the act of LESE-MAJESTE.

So little Tarzan wriggled out from beneath the struggling mass,
clutching his grisly prize close to his breast.

Among those circling futilely the outskirts of the banqueters was old
Tublat.  He had been among the first at the feast, but had retreated
with a goodly share to eat in quiet, and was now forcing his way back
for more.

So it was that he spied Tarzan as the boy emerged from the clawing,
pushing throng with that hairy forearm hugged firmly to his body.

Tublat's little, close-set, bloodshot, pig-eyes shot wicked gleams of
hate as they fell upon the object of his loathing.  In them, too, was
greed for the toothsome dainty the boy carried.

But Tarzan saw his arch enemy as quickly, and divining what the great
beast would do he leaped nimbly away toward the females and the young,
hoping to hide himself among them.  Tublat, however, was close upon his
heels, so that he had no opportunity to seek a place of concealment,
but saw that he would be put to it to escape at all.

Swiftly he sped toward the surrounding trees and with an agile bound
gained a lower limb with one hand, and then, transferring his burden to
his teeth, he climbed rapidly upward, closely followed by Tublat.

Up, up he went to the waving pinnacle of a lofty monarch of the forest
where his heavy pursuer dared not follow him.  There he perched,
hurling taunts and insults at the raging, foaming beast fifty feet
below him.

And then Tublat went mad.

With horrifying screams and roars he rushed to the ground, among the
females and young, sinking his great fangs into a dozen tiny necks and
tearing great pieces from the backs and breasts of the females who fell
into his clutches.

In the brilliant moonlight Tarzan witnessed the whole mad carnival of
rage.  He saw the females and the young scamper to the safety of the
trees.  Then the great bulls in the center of the arena felt the mighty
fangs of their demented fellow, and with one accord they melted into
the black shadows of the overhanging forest.

There was but one in the amphitheater beside Tublat, a belated female
running swiftly toward the tree where Tarzan perched, and close behind
her came the awful Tublat.

It was Kala, and as quickly as Tarzan saw that Tublat was gaining on
her he dropped with the rapidity of a falling stone, from branch to
branch, toward his foster mother.

Now she was beneath the overhanging limbs and close above her crouched
Tarzan, waiting the outcome of the race.

She leaped into the air grasping a low-hanging branch, but almost over
the head of Tublat, so nearly had he distanced her.  She should have
been safe now but there was a rending, tearing sound, the branch broke
and precipitated her full upon the head of Tublat, knocking him to the
ground.

Both were up in an instant, but as quick as they had been Tarzan had
been quicker, so that the infuriated bull found himself facing the
man-child who stood between him and Kala.

Nothing could have suited the fierce beast better, and with a roar of
triumph he leaped upon the little Lord Greystoke.  But his fangs never
closed in that nut brown flesh.

A muscular hand shot out and grasped the hairy throat, and another
plunged a keen hunting knife a dozen times into the broad breast.  Like
lightning the blows fell, and only ceased when Tarzan felt the limp
form crumple beneath him.

As the body rolled to the ground Tarzan of the Apes placed his foot
upon the neck of his lifelong enemy and, raising his eyes to the full
moon, threw back his fierce young head and voiced the wild and terrible
cry of his people.

One by one the tribe swung down from their arboreal retreats and formed
a circle about Tarzan and his vanquished foe.  When they had all come
Tarzan turned toward them.

"I am Tarzan," he cried.  "I am a great killer.  Let all respect Tarzan
of the Apes and Kala, his mother.  There be none among you as mighty as
Tarzan.  Let his enemies beware."

Looking full into the wicked, red eyes of Kerchak, the young Lord
Greystoke beat upon his mighty breast and screamed out once more his
shrill cry of defiance.




Chapter VIII

The Tree-top Hunter


The morning after the Dum-Dum the tribe started slowly back through the
forest toward the coast.

The body of Tublat lay where it had fallen, for the people of Kerchak
do not eat their own dead.

The march was but a leisurely search for food.  Cabbage palm and gray
plum, pisang and scitamine they found in abundance, with wild
pineapple, and occasionally small mammals, birds, eggs, reptiles, and
insects.  The nuts they cracked between their powerful jaws, or, if too
hard, broke by pounding between stones.

Once old Sabor, crossing their path, sent them scurrying to the safety
of the higher branches, for if she respected their number and their
sharp fangs, they on their part held her cruel and mighty ferocity in
equal esteem.

Upon a low-hanging branch sat Tarzan directly above the majestic,
supple body as it forged silently through the thick jungle.  He hurled
a pineapple at the ancient enemy of his people.  The great beast
stopped and, turning, eyed the taunting figure above her.

With an angry lash of her tail she bared her yellow fangs, curling her
great lips in a hideous snarl that wrinkled her bristling snout in
serried ridges and closed her wicked eyes to two narrow slits of rage
and hatred.

With back-laid ears she looked straight into the eyes of Tarzan of the
Apes and sounded her fierce, shrill challenge.  And from the safety of
his overhanging limb the ape-child sent back the fearsome answer of his
kind.

For a moment the two eyed each other in silence, and then the great cat
turned into the jungle, which swallowed her as the ocean engulfs a
tossed pebble.

But into the mind of Tarzan a great plan sprang.  He had killed the
fierce Tublat, so was he not therefore a mighty fighter?  Now would he
track down the crafty Sabor and slay her likewise.  He would be a
mighty hunter, also.

At the bottom of his little English heart beat the great desire to
cover his nakedness with CLOTHES for he had learned from his picture
books that all MEN were so covered, while MONKEYS and APES and every
other living thing went naked.

CLOTHES therefore, must be truly a badge of greatness; the insignia of
the superiority of MAN over all other animals, for surely there could
be no other reason for wearing the hideous things.

Many moons ago, when he had been much smaller, he had desired the skin
of Sabor, the lioness, or Numa, the lion, or Sheeta, the leopard to
cover his hairless body that he might no longer resemble hideous
Histah, the snake; but now he was proud of his sleek skin for it
betokened his descent from a mighty race, and the conflicting desires
to go naked in prideful proof of his ancestry, or to conform to the
customs of his own kind and wear hideous and uncomfortable apparel
found first one and then the other in the ascendency.

As the tribe continued their slow way through the forest after the
passing of Sabor, Tarzan's head was filled with his great scheme for
slaying his enemy, and for many days thereafter he thought of little
else.

On this day, however, he presently had other and more immediate
interests to attract his attention.

Suddenly it became as midnight; the noises of the jungle ceased; the
trees stood motionless as though in paralyzed expectancy of some great
and imminent disaster.  All nature waited--but not for long.

Faintly, from a distance, came a low, sad moaning.  Nearer and nearer
it approached, mounting louder and louder in volume.

The great trees bent in unison as though pressed earthward by a mighty
hand.  Farther and farther toward the ground they inclined, and still
there was no sound save the deep and awesome moaning of the wind.

Then, suddenly, the jungle giants whipped back, lashing their mighty
tops in angry and deafening protest.  A vivid and blinding light
flashed from the whirling, inky clouds above.  The deep cannonade of
roaring thunder belched forth its fearsome challenge.  The deluge
came--all hell broke loose upon the jungle.

The tribe shivering from the cold rain, huddled at the bases of great
trees.  The lightning, darting and flashing through the blackness,
showed wildly waving branches, whipping streamers and bending trunks.

Now and again some ancient patriarch of the woods, rent by a flashing
bolt, would crash in a thousand pieces among the surrounding trees,
carrying down numberless branches and many smaller neighbors to add to
the tangled confusion of the tropical jungle.

Branches, great and small, torn away by the ferocity of the tornado,
hurtled through the wildly waving verdure, carrying death and
destruction to countless unhappy denizens of the thickly peopled world
below.

For hours the fury of the storm continued without surcease, and still
the tribe huddled close in shivering fear.  In constant danger from
falling trunks and branches and paralyzed by the vivid flashing of
lightning and the bellowing of thunder they crouched in pitiful misery
until the storm passed.

The end was as sudden as the beginning.  The wind ceased, the sun shone
forth--nature smiled once more.

The dripping leaves and branches, and the moist petals of gorgeous
flowers glistened in the splendor of the returning day.  And, so--as
Nature forgot, her children forgot also.  Busy life went on as it had
been before the darkness and the fright.

But to Tarzan a dawning light had come to explain the mystery of
CLOTHES.  How snug he would have been beneath the heavy coat of Sabor!
And so was added a further incentive to the adventure.

For several months the tribe hovered near the beach where stood
Tarzan's cabin, and his studies took up the greater portion of his
time, but always when journeying through the forest he kept his rope in
readiness, and many were the smaller animals that fell into the snare
of the quick thrown noose.

Once it fell about the short neck of Horta, the boar, and his mad lunge
for freedom toppled Tarzan from the overhanging limb where he had lain
in wait and from whence he had launched his sinuous coil.

The mighty tusker turned at the sound of his falling body, and, seeing
only the easy prey of a young ape, he lowered his head and charged
madly at the surprised youth.

Tarzan, happily, was uninjured by the fall, alighting catlike upon all
fours far outspread to take up the shock.  He was on his feet in an
instant and, leaping with the agility of the monkey he was, he gained
the safety of a low limb as Horta, the boar, rushed futilely beneath.

Thus it was that Tarzan learned by experience the limitations as well
as the possibilities of his strange weapon.

He lost a long rope on this occasion, but he knew that had it been
Sabor who had thus dragged him from his perch the outcome might have
been very different, for he would have lost his life, doubtless, into
the bargain.

It took him many days to braid a new rope, but when, finally, it was
done he went forth purposely to hunt, and lie in wait among the dense
foliage of a great branch right above the well-beaten trail that led to
water.

Several small animals passed unharmed beneath him.  He did not want
such insignificant game.  It would take a strong animal to test the
efficacy of his new scheme.

At last came she whom Tarzan sought, with lithe sinews rolling beneath
shimmering hide; fat and glossy came Sabor, the lioness.

Her great padded feet fell soft and noiseless on the narrow trail.  Her
head was high in ever alert attention; her long tail moved slowly in
sinuous and graceful undulations.

Nearer and nearer she came to where Tarzan of the Apes crouched upon
his limb, the coils of his long rope poised ready in his hand.

Like a thing of bronze, motionless as death, sat Tarzan.  Sabor passed
beneath.  One stride beyond she took--a second, a third, and then the
silent coil shot out above her.

For an instant the spreading noose hung above her head like a great
snake, and then, as she looked upward to detect the origin of the
swishing sound of the rope, it settled about her neck.  With a quick
jerk Tarzan snapped the noose tight about the glossy throat, and then
he dropped the rope and clung to his support with both hands.

Sabor was trapped.

With a bound the startled beast turned into the jungle, but Tarzan was
not to lose another rope through the same cause as the first.  He had
learned from experience.  The lioness had taken but half her second
bound when she felt the rope tighten about her neck; her body turned
completely over in the air and she fell with a heavy crash upon her
back.  Tarzan had fastened the end of the rope securely to the trunk of
the great tree on which he sat.

Thus far his plan had worked to perfection, but when he grasped the
rope, bracing himself behind a crotch of two mighty branches, he found
that dragging the mighty, struggling, clawing, biting, screaming mass
of iron-muscled fury up to the tree and hanging her was a very
different proposition.

The weight of old Sabor was immense, and when she braced her huge paws
nothing less than Tantor, the elephant, himself, could have budged her.

The lioness was now back in the path where she could see the author of
the indignity which had been placed upon her.  Screaming with rage she
suddenly charged, leaping high into the air toward Tarzan, but when her
huge body struck the limb on which Tarzan had been, Tarzan was no
longer there.

Instead he perched lightly upon a smaller branch twenty feet above the
raging captive.  For a moment Sabor hung half across the branch, while
Tarzan mocked, and hurled twigs and branches at her unprotected face.

Presently the beast dropped to the earth again and Tarzan came quickly
to seize the rope, but Sabor had now found that it was only a slender
cord that held her, and grasping it in her huge jaws severed it before
Tarzan could tighten the strangling noose a second time.

Tarzan was much hurt.  His well-laid plan had come to naught, so he sat
there screaming at the roaring creature beneath him and making mocking
grimaces at it.

Sabor paced back and forth beneath the tree for hours; four times she
crouched and sprang at the dancing sprite above her, but might as well
have clutched at the illusive wind that murmured through the tree tops.

At last Tarzan tired of the sport, and with a parting roar of challenge
and a well-aimed ripe fruit that spread soft and sticky over the
snarling face of his enemy, he swung rapidly through the trees, a
hundred feet above the ground, and in a short time was among the
members of his tribe.

Here he recounted the details of his adventure, with swelling chest and
so considerable swagger that he quite impressed even his bitterest
enemies, while Kala fairly danced for joy and pride.




Chapter IX

Man and Man


Tarzan of the Apes lived on in his wild, jungle existence with little
change for several years, only that he grew stronger and wiser, and
learned from his books more and more of the strange worlds which lay
somewhere outside his primeval forest.

To him life was never monotonous or stale.  There was always Pisah, the
fish, to be caught in the many streams and the little lakes, and Sabor,
with her ferocious cousins to keep one ever on the alert and give zest
to every instant that one spent upon the ground.

Often they hunted him, and more often he hunted them, but though they
never quite reached him with those cruel, sharp claws of theirs, yet
there were times when one could scarce have passed a thick leaf between
their talons and his smooth hide.

Quick was Sabor, the lioness, and quick were Numa and Sheeta, but
Tarzan of the Apes was lightning.

With Tantor, the elephant, he made friends.  How?  Ask not.  But this
is known to the denizens of the jungle, that on many moonlight nights
Tarzan of the Apes and Tantor, the elephant, walked together, and where
the way was clear Tarzan rode, perched high upon Tantor's mighty back.

Many days during these years he spent in the cabin of his father, where
still lay, untouched, the bones of his parents and the skeleton of
Kala's baby.  At eighteen he read fluently and understood nearly all he
read in the many and varied volumes on the shelves.

Also could he write, with printed letters, rapidly and plainly, but
script he had not mastered, for though there were several copy books
among his treasure, there was so little written English in the cabin
that he saw no use for bothering with this other form of writing,
though he could read it, laboriously.

Thus, at eighteen, we find him, an English lordling, who could speak no
English, and yet who could read and write his native language.  Never
had he seen a human being other than himself, for the little area
traversed by his tribe was watered by no greater river to bring down
the savage natives of the interior.

High hills shut it off on three sides, the ocean on the fourth.  It was
alive with lions and leopards and poisonous snakes.  Its untouched
mazes of matted jungle had as yet invited no hardy pioneer from the
human beasts beyond its frontier.

But as Tarzan of the Apes sat one day in the cabin of his father
delving into the mysteries of a new book, the ancient security of his
jungle was broken forever.

At the far eastern confine a strange cavalcade strung, in single file,
over the brow of a low hill.

In advance were fifty black warriors armed with slender wooden spears
with ends hard baked over slow fires, and long bows and poisoned
arrows.  On their backs were oval shields, in their noses huge rings,
while from the kinky wool of their heads protruded tufts of gay
feathers.

Across their foreheads were tattooed three parallel lines of color, and
on each breast three concentric circles.  Their yellow teeth were filed
to sharp points, and their great protruding lips added still further to
the low and bestial brutishness of their appearance.

Following them were several hundred women and children, the former
bearing upon their heads great burdens of cooking pots, household
utensils and ivory.  In the rear were a hundred warriors, similar in
all respects to the advance guard.

That they more greatly feared an attack from the rear than whatever
unknown enemies lurked in their advance was evidenced by the formation
of the column; and such was the fact, for they were fleeing from the
white man's soldiers who had so harassed them for rubber and ivory that
they had turned upon their conquerors one day and massacred a white
officer and a small detachment of his black troops.

For many days they had gorged themselves on meat, but eventually a
stronger body of troops had come and fallen upon their village by night
to revenge the death of their comrades.

That night the black soldiers of the white man had had meat a-plenty,
and this little remnant of a once powerful tribe had slunk off into the
gloomy jungle toward the unknown, and freedom.

But that which meant freedom and the pursuit of happiness to these
savage blacks meant consternation and death to many of the wild
denizens of their new home.

For three days the little cavalcade marched slowly through the heart of
this unknown and untracked forest, until finally, early in the fourth
day, they came upon a little spot near the banks of a small river,
which seemed less thickly overgrown than any ground they had yet
encountered.

Here they set to work to build a new village, and in a month a great
clearing had been made, huts and palisades erected, plantains, yams and
maize planted, and they had taken up their old life in their new home.
Here there were no white men, no soldiers, nor any rubber or ivory to
be gathered for cruel and thankless taskmasters.

Several moons passed by ere the blacks ventured far into the territory
surrounding their new village.  Several had already fallen prey to old
Sabor, and because the jungle was so infested with these fierce and
bloodthirsty cats, and with lions and leopards, the ebony warriors
hesitated to trust themselves far from the safety of their palisades.

But one day, Kulonga, a son of the old king, Mbonga, wandered far into
the dense mazes to the west.  Warily he stepped, his slender lance ever
ready, his long oval shield firmly grasped in his left hand close to
his sleek ebony body.

At his back his bow, and in the quiver upon his shield many slim,
straight arrows, well smeared with the thick, dark, tarry substance
that rendered deadly their tiniest needle prick.

Night found Kulonga far from the palisades of his father's village, but
still headed westward, and climbing into the fork of a great tree he
fashioned a rude platform and curled himself for sleep.

Three miles to the west slept the tribe of Kerchak.

Early the next morning the apes were astir, moving through the jungle
in search of food.  Tarzan, as was his custom, prosecuted his search in
the direction of the cabin so that by leisurely hunting on the way his
stomach was filled by the time he reached the beach.

The apes scattered by ones, and twos, and threes in all directions, but
ever within sound of a signal of alarm.

Kala had moved slowly along an elephant track toward the east, and was
busily engaged in turning over rotted limbs and logs in search of
succulent bugs and fungi, when the faintest shadow of a strange noise
brought her to startled attention.

For fifty yards before her the trail was straight, and down this leafy
tunnel she saw the stealthy advancing figure of a strange and fearful
creature.

It was Kulonga.

Kala did not wait to see more, but, turning, moved rapidly back along
the trail.  She did not run; but, after the manner of her kind when not
aroused, sought rather to avoid than to escape.

Close after her came Kulonga.  Here was meat.  He could make a killing
and feast well this day.  On he hurried, his spear poised for the throw.

At a turning of the trail he came in sight of her again upon another
straight stretch.  His spear hand went far back, the muscles rolled,
lightning-like, beneath the sleek hide.  Out shot the arm, and the
spear sped toward Kala.

A poor cast.  It but grazed her side.

With a cry of rage and pain the she-ape turned upon her tormentor.  In
an instant the trees were crashing beneath the weight of her hurrying
fellows, swinging rapidly toward the scene of trouble in answer to
Kala's scream.

As she charged, Kulonga unslung his bow and fitted an arrow with almost
unthinkable quickness.  Drawing the shaft far back he drove the
poisoned missile straight into the heart of the great anthropoid.

With a horrid scream Kala plunged forward upon her face before the
astonished members of her tribe.

Roaring and shrieking the apes dashed toward Kulonga, but that wary
savage was fleeing down the trail like a frightened antelope.

He knew something of the ferocity of these wild, hairy men, and his one
desire was to put as many miles between himself and them as he possibly
could.

They followed him, racing through the trees, for a long distance, but
finally one by one they abandoned the chase and returned to the scene
of the tragedy.

None of them had ever seen a man before, other than Tarzan, and so they
wondered vaguely what strange manner of creature it might be that had
invaded their jungle.

On the far beach by the little cabin Tarzan heard the faint echoes of
the conflict and knowing that something was seriously amiss among the
tribe he hastened rapidly toward the direction of the sound.

When he arrived he found the entire tribe gathered jabbering about the
dead body of his slain mother.

Tarzan's grief and anger were unbounded.  He roared out his hideous
challenge time and again.  He beat upon his great chest with his
clenched fists, and then he fell upon the body of Kala and sobbed out
the pitiful sorrowing of his lonely heart.

To lose the only creature in all his world who ever had manifested love
and affection for him was the greatest tragedy he had ever known.

What though Kala was a fierce and hideous ape!  To Tarzan she had been
kind, she had been beautiful.

Upon her he had lavished, unknown to himself, all the reverence and
respect and love that a normal English boy feels for his own mother.
He had never known another, and so to Kala was given, though mutely,
all that would have belonged to the fair and lovely Lady Alice had she
lived.

After the first outburst of grief Tarzan controlled himself, and
questioning the members of the tribe who had witnessed the killing of
Kala he learned all that their meager vocabulary could convey.

It was enough, however, for his needs.  It told him of a strange,
hairless, black ape with feathers growing upon its head, who launched
death from a slender branch, and then ran, with the fleetness of Bara,
the deer, toward the rising sun.

Tarzan waited no longer, but leaping into the branches of the trees
sped rapidly through the forest.  He knew the windings of the elephant
trail along which Kala's murderer had flown, and so he cut straight
through the jungle to intercept the black warrior who was evidently
following the tortuous detours of the trail.

At his side was the hunting knife of his unknown sire, and across his
shoulders the coils of his own long rope.  In an hour he struck the
trail again, and coming to earth examined the soil minutely.

In the soft mud on the bank of a tiny rivulet he found footprints such
as he alone in all the jungle had ever made, but much larger than his.
His heart beat fast.  Could it be that he was trailing a MAN--one of
his own race?

There were two sets of imprints pointing in opposite directions.  So
his quarry had already passed on his return along the trail.  As he
examined the newer spoor a tiny particle of earth toppled from the
outer edge of one of the footprints to the bottom of its shallow
depression--ah, the trail was very fresh, his prey must have but
scarcely passed.

Tarzan swung himself to the trees once more, and with swift
noiselessness sped along high above the trail.

He had covered barely a mile when he came upon the black warrior
standing in a little open space.  In his hand was his slender bow to
which he had fitted one of his death dealing arrows.

Opposite him across the little clearing stood Horta, the boar, with
lowered head and foam flecked tusks, ready to charge.

Tarzan looked with wonder upon the strange creature beneath him--so
like him in form and yet so different in face and color.  His books had
portrayed the NEGRO, but how different had been the dull, dead print to
this sleek thing of ebony, pulsing with life.

As the man stood there with taut drawn bow Tarzan recognized him not so
much the NEGRO as the ARCHER of his picture book--

              A stands for Archer


How wonderful!  Tarzan almost betrayed his presence in the deep
excitement of his discovery.

But things were commencing to happen below him.  The sinewy black arm
had drawn the shaft far back; Horta, the boar, was charging, and then
the black released the little poisoned arrow, and Tarzan saw it fly
with the quickness of thought and lodge in the bristling neck of the
boar.

Scarcely had the shaft left his bow ere Kulonga had fitted another to
it, but Horta, the boar, was upon him so quickly that he had no time to
discharge it.  With a bound the black leaped entirely over the rushing
beast and turning with incredible swiftness planted a second arrow in
Horta's back.

Then Kulonga sprang into a near-by tree.

Horta wheeled to charge his enemy once more; a dozen steps he took,
then he staggered and fell upon his side.  For a moment his muscles
stiffened and relaxed convulsively, then he lay still.

Kulonga came down from his tree.

With a knife that hung at his side he cut several large pieces from the
boar's body, and in the center of the trail he built a fire, cooking
and eating as much as he wanted.  The rest he left where it had fallen.

Tarzan was an interested spectator.  His desire to kill burned fiercely
in his wild breast, but his desire to learn was even greater.  He would
follow this savage creature for a while and know from whence he came.
He could kill him at his leisure later, when the bow and deadly arrows
were laid aside.

When Kulonga had finished his repast and disappeared beyond a near
turning of the path, Tarzan dropped quietly to the ground.  With his
knife he severed many strips of meat from Horta's carcass, but he did
not cook them.

He had seen fire, but only when Ara, the lightning, had destroyed some
great tree.  That any creature of the jungle could produce the
red-and-yellow fangs which devoured wood and left nothing but fine dust
surprised Tarzan greatly, and why the black warrior had ruined his
delicious repast by plunging it into the blighting heat was quite
beyond him.  Possibly Ara was a friend with whom the Archer was sharing
his food.

But, be that as it may, Tarzan would not ruin good meat in any such
foolish manner, so he gobbled down a great quantity of the raw flesh,
burying the balance of the carcass beside the trail where he could find
it upon his return.

And then Lord Greystoke wiped his greasy fingers upon his naked thighs
and took up the trail of Kulonga, the son of Mbonga, the king; while in
far-off London another Lord Greystoke, the younger brother of the real
Lord Greystoke's father, sent back his chops to the club's CHEF because
they were underdone, and when he had finished his repast he dipped his
finger-ends into a silver bowl of scented water and dried them upon a
piece of snowy damask.

All day Tarzan followed Kulonga, hovering above him in the trees like
some malign spirit.  Twice more he saw him hurl his arrows of
destruction--once at Dango, the hyena, and again at Manu, the monkey.
In each instance the animal died almost instantly, for Kulonga's poison
was very fresh and very deadly.

Tarzan thought much on this wondrous method of slaying as he swung
slowly along at a safe distance behind his quarry.  He knew that alone
the tiny prick of the arrow could not so quickly dispatch these wild
things of the jungle, who were often torn and scratched and gored in a
frightful manner as they fought with their jungle neighbors, yet as
often recovered as not.

No, there was something mysterious connected with these tiny slivers of
wood which could bring death by a mere scratch.  He must look into the
matter.

That night Kulonga slept in the crotch of a mighty tree and far above
him crouched Tarzan of the Apes.

When Kulonga awoke he found that his bow and arrows had disappeared.
The black warrior was furious and frightened, but more frightened than
furious.  He searched the ground below the tree, and he searched the
tree above the ground; but there was no sign of either bow or arrows or
of the nocturnal marauder.

Kulonga was panic-stricken.  His spear he had hurled at Kala and had
not recovered; and, now that his bow and arrows were gone, he was
defenseless except for a single knife.  His only hope lay in reaching
the village of Mbonga as quickly as his legs would carry him.

That he was not far from home he was certain, so he took the trail at a
rapid trot.

From a great mass of impenetrable foliage a few yards away emerged
Tarzan of the Apes to swing quietly in his wake.

Kulonga's bow and arrows were securely tied high in the top of a giant
tree from which a patch of bark had been removed by a sharp knife near
to the ground, and a branch half cut through and left hanging about
fifty feet higher up.  Thus Tarzan blazed the forest trails and marked
his caches.

As Kulonga continued his journey Tarzan closed on him until he traveled
almost over the black's head.  His rope he now held coiled in his right
hand; he was almost ready for the kill.

The moment was delayed only because Tarzan was anxious to ascertain the
black warrior's destination, and presently he was rewarded, for they
came suddenly in view of a great clearing, at one end of which lay many
strange lairs.

Tarzan was directly over Kulonga, as he made the discovery.  The forest
ended abruptly and beyond lay two hundred yards of planted fields
between the jungle and the village.

Tarzan must act quickly or his prey would be gone; but Tarzan's life
training left so little space between decision and action when an
emergency confronted him that there was not even room for the shadow of
a thought between.

So it was that as Kulonga emerged from the shadow of the jungle a
slender coil of rope sped sinuously above him from the lowest branch of
a mighty tree directly upon the edge of the fields of Mbonga, and ere
the king's son had taken a half dozen steps into the clearing a quick
noose tightened about his neck.

So quickly did Tarzan of the Apes drag back his prey that Kulonga's cry
of alarm was throttled in his windpipe.  Hand over hand Tarzan drew the
struggling black until he had him hanging by his neck in mid-air; then
Tarzan climbed to a larger branch drawing the still threshing victim
well up into the sheltering verdure of the tree.

Here he fastened the rope securely to a stout branch, and then,
descending, plunged his hunting knife into Kulonga's heart.  Kala was
avenged.

Tarzan examined the black minutely, for he had never seen any other
human being.  The knife with its sheath and belt caught his eye; he
appropriated them.  A copper anklet also took his fancy, and this he
transferred to his own leg.

He examined and admired the tattooing on the forehead and breast.  He
marveled at the sharp filed teeth.  He investigated and appropriated
the feathered headdress, and then he prepared to get down to business,
for Tarzan of the Apes was hungry, and here was meat; meat of the kill,
which jungle ethics permitted him to eat.

How may we judge him, by what standards, this ape-man with the heart
and head and body of an English gentleman, and the training of a wild
beast?

Tublat, whom he had hated and who had hated him, he had killed in a
fair fight, and yet never had the thought of eating Tublat's flesh
entered his head.  It would have been as revolting to him as is
cannibalism to us.

But who was Kulonga that he might not be eaten as fairly as Horta, the
boar, or Bara, the deer?  Was he not simply another of the countless
wild things of the jungle who preyed upon one another to satisfy the
cravings of hunger?

Suddenly, a strange doubt stayed his hand.  Had not his books taught
him that he was a man?  And was not The Archer a man, also?

Did men eat men?  Alas, he did not know.  Why, then, this hesitancy!
Once more he essayed the effort, but a qualm of nausea overwhelmed him.
He did not understand.

All he knew was that he could not eat the flesh of this black man, and
thus hereditary instinct, ages old, usurped the functions of his
untaught mind and saved him from transgressing a worldwide law of whose
very existence he was ignorant.

Quickly he lowered Kulonga's body to the ground, removed the noose, and
took to the trees again.




Chapter X

The Fear-Phantom


From a lofty perch Tarzan viewed the village of thatched huts across
the intervening plantation.

He saw that at one point the forest touched the village, and to this
spot he made his way, lured by a fever of curiosity to behold animals
of his own kind, and to learn more of their ways and view the strange
lairs in which they lived.

His savage life among the fierce wild brutes of the jungle left no
opening for any thought that these could be aught else than enemies.
Similarity of form led him into no erroneous conception of the welcome
that would be accorded him should he be discovered by these, the first
of his own kind he had ever seen.

Tarzan of the Apes was no sentimentalist.  He knew nothing of the
brotherhood of man.  All things outside his own tribe were his deadly
enemies, with the few exceptions of which Tantor, the elephant, was a
marked example.

And he realized all this without malice or hatred.  To kill was the law
of the wild world he knew.  Few were his primitive pleasures, but the
greatest of these was to hunt and kill, and so he accorded to others
the right to cherish the same desires as he, even though he himself
might be the object of their hunt.

His strange life had left him neither morose nor bloodthirsty.  That he
joyed in killing, and that he killed with a joyous laugh upon his
handsome lips betokened no innate cruelty.  He killed for food most
often, but, being a man, he sometimes killed for pleasure, a thing
which no other animal does; for it has remained for man alone among all
creatures to kill senselessly and wantonly for the mere pleasure of
inflicting suffering and death.

And when he killed for revenge, or in self-defense, he did that also
without hysteria, for it was a very businesslike proceeding which
admitted of no levity.

So it was that now, as he cautiously approached the village of Mbonga,
he was quite prepared either to kill or be killed should he be
discovered.  He proceeded with unwonted stealth, for Kulonga had taught
him great respect for the little sharp splinters of wood which dealt
death so swiftly and unerringly.

At length he came to a great tree, heavy laden with thick foliage and
loaded with pendant loops of giant creepers.  From this almost
impenetrable bower above the village he crouched, looking down upon the
scene below him, wondering over every feature of this new, strange life.

There were naked children running and playing in the village street.
There were women grinding dried plantain in crude stone mortars, while
others were fashioning cakes from the powdered flour.  Out in the
fields he could see still other women hoeing, weeding, or gathering.

All wore strange protruding girdles of dried grass about their hips and
many were loaded with brass and copper anklets, armlets and bracelets.
Around many a dusky neck hung curiously coiled strands of wire, while
several were further ornamented by huge nose rings.

Tarzan of the Apes looked with growing wonder at these strange
creatures.  Dozing in the shade he saw several men, while at the
extreme outskirts of the clearing he occasionally caught glimpses of
armed warriors apparently guarding the village against surprise from an
attacking enemy.

He noticed that the women alone worked.  Nowhere was there evidence of
a man tilling the fields or performing any of the homely duties of the
village.

Finally his eyes rested upon a woman directly beneath him.

Before her was a small cauldron standing over a low fire and in it
bubbled a thick, reddish, tarry mass.  On one side of her lay a
quantity of wooden arrows the points of which she dipped into the
seething substance, then laying them upon a narrow rack of boughs which
stood upon her other side.

Tarzan of the Apes was fascinated.  Here was the secret of the terrible
destructiveness of The Archer's tiny missiles.  He noted the extreme
care which the woman took that none of the matter should touch her
hands, and once when a particle spattered upon one of her fingers he
saw her plunge the member into a vessel of water and quickly rub the
tiny stain away with a handful of leaves.

Tarzan knew nothing of poison, but his shrewd reasoning told him that
it was this deadly stuff that killed, and not the little arrow, which
was merely the messenger that carried it into the body of its victim.

How he should like to have more of those little death-dealing slivers.
If the woman would only leave her work for an instant he could drop
down, gather up a handful, and be back in the tree again before she
drew three breaths.

As he was trying to think out some plan to distract her attention he
heard a wild cry from across the clearing.  He looked and saw a black
warrior standing beneath the very tree in which he had killed the
murderer of Kala an hour before.

The fellow was shouting and waving his spear above his head.  Now and
again he would point to something on the ground before him.

The village was in an uproar instantly.  Armed men rushed from the
interior of many a hut and raced madly across the clearing toward the
excited sentry.  After them trooped the old men, and the women and
children until, in a moment, the village was deserted.

Tarzan of the Apes knew that they had found the body of his victim, but
that interested him far less than the fact that no one remained in the
village to prevent his taking a supply of the arrows which lay below
him.

Quickly and noiselessly he dropped to the ground beside the cauldron of
poison.  For a moment he stood motionless, his quick, bright eyes
scanning the interior of the palisade.

No one was in sight.  His eyes rested upon the open doorway of a nearby
hut.  He would take a look within, thought Tarzan, and so, cautiously,
he approached the low thatched building.

For a moment he stood without, listening intently.  There was no sound,
and he glided into the semi-darkness of the interior.

Weapons hung against the walls--long spears, strangely shaped knives, a
couple of narrow shields.  In the center of the room was a cooking pot,
and at the far end a litter of dry grasses covered by woven mats which
evidently served the owners as beds and bedding.  Several human skulls
lay upon the floor.

Tarzan of the Apes felt of each article, hefted the spears, smelled of
them, for he "saw" largely through his sensitive and highly trained
nostrils.  He determined to own one of these long, pointed sticks, but
he could not take one on this trip because of the arrows he meant to
carry.

As he took each article from the walls, he placed it in a pile in the
center of the room.  On top of all he placed the cooking pot, inverted,
and on top of this he laid one of the grinning skulls, upon which he
fastened the headdress of the dead Kulonga.

Then he stood back, surveyed his work, and grinned.  Tarzan of the Apes
enjoyed a joke.

But now he heard, outside, the sounds of many voices, and long mournful
howls, and mighty wailing.  He was startled.  Had he remained too long?
Quickly he reached the doorway and peered down the village street
toward the village gate.

The natives were not yet in sight, though he could plainly hear them
approaching across the plantation.  They must be very near.

Like a flash he sprang across the opening to the pile of arrows.
Gathering up all he could carry under one arm, he overturned the
seething cauldron with a kick, and disappeared into the foliage above
just as the first of the returning natives entered the gate at the far
end of the village street.  Then he turned to watch the proceeding
below, poised like some wild bird ready to take swift wing at the first
sign of danger.

The natives filed up the street, four of them bearing the dead body of
Kulonga.  Behind trailed the women, uttering strange cries and weird
lamentation.  On they came to the portals of Kulonga's hut, the very
one in which Tarzan had wrought his depredations.

Scarcely had half a dozen entered the building ere they came rushing
out in wild, jabbering confusion.  The others hastened to gather about.
There was much excited gesticulating, pointing, and chattering; then
several of the warriors approached and peered within.

Finally an old fellow with many ornaments of metal about his arms and
legs, and a necklace of dried human hands depending upon his chest,
entered the hut.

It was Mbonga, the king, father of Kulonga.

For a few moments all was silent.  Then Mbonga emerged, a look of
mingled wrath and superstitious fear writ upon his hideous countenance.
He spoke a few words to the assembled warriors, and in an instant the
men were flying through the little village searching minutely every hut
and corner within the palisades.

Scarcely had the search commenced than the overturned cauldron was
discovered, and with it the theft of the poisoned arrows.  Nothing more
they found, and it was a thoroughly awed and frightened group of
savages which huddled around their king a few moments later.

Mbonga could explain nothing of the strange events that had taken
place.  The finding of the still warm body of Kulonga--on the very
verge of their fields and within easy earshot of the village--knifed
and stripped at the door of his father's home, was in itself
sufficiently mysterious, but these last awesome discoveries within the
village, within the dead Kulonga's own hut, filled their hearts with
dismay, and conjured in their poor brains only the most frightful of
superstitious explanations.

They stood in little groups, talking in low tones, and ever casting
affrighted glances behind them from their great rolling eyes.

Tarzan of the Apes watched them for a while from his lofty perch in the
great tree.  There was much in their demeanor which he could not
understand, for of superstition he was ignorant, and of fear of any
kind he had but a vague conception.

The sun was high in the heavens.  Tarzan had not broken fast this day,
and it was many miles to where lay the toothsome remains of Horta the
boar.

So he turned his back upon the village of Mbonga and melted away into
the leafy fastness of the forest.




Chapter XI

"King of the Apes"


It was not yet dark when he reached the tribe, though he stopped to
exhume and devour the remains of the wild boar he had cached the
preceding day, and again to take Kulonga's bow and arrows from the tree
top in which he had hidden them.

It was a well-laden Tarzan who dropped from the branches into the midst
of the tribe of Kerchak.

With swelling chest he narrated the glories of his adventure and
exhibited the spoils of conquest.

Kerchak grunted and turned away, for he was jealous of this strange
member of his band.  In his little evil brain he sought for some excuse
to wreak his hatred upon Tarzan.

The next day Tarzan was practicing with his bow and arrows at the first
gleam of dawn.  At first he lost nearly every bolt he shot, but finally
he learned to guide the little shafts with fair accuracy, and ere a
month had passed he was no mean shot; but his proficiency had cost him
nearly his entire supply of arrows.

The tribe continued to find the hunting good in the vicinity of the
beach, and so Tarzan of the Apes varied his archery practice with
further investigation of his father's choice though little store of
books.

It was during this period that the young English lord found hidden in
the back of one of the cupboards in the cabin a small metal box.  The
key was in the lock, and a few moments of investigation and
experimentation were rewarded with the successful opening of the
receptacle.

In it he found a faded photograph of a smooth faced young man, a golden
locket studded with diamonds, linked to a small gold chain, a few
letters and a small book.

Tarzan examined these all minutely.

The photograph he liked most of all, for the eyes were smiling, and the
face was open and frank.  It was his father.

The locket, too, took his fancy, and he placed the chain about his neck
in imitation of the ornamentation he had seen to be so common among the
black men he had visited.  The brilliant stones gleamed strangely
against his smooth, brown hide.

The letters he could scarcely decipher for he had learned little or
nothing of script, so he put them back in the box with the photograph
and turned his attention to the book.

This was almost entirely filled with fine script, but while the little
bugs were all familiar to him, their arrangement and the combinations
in which they occurred were strange, and entirely incomprehensible.

Tarzan had long since learned the use of the dictionary, but much to
his sorrow and perplexity it proved of no avail to him in this
emergency.  Not a word of all that was writ in the book could he find,
and so he put it back in the metal box, but with a determination to
work out the mysteries of it later on.

Little did he know that this book held between its covers the key to
his origin--the answer to the strange riddle of his strange life.  It
was the diary of John Clayton, Lord Greystoke--kept in French, as had
always been his custom.

Tarzan replaced the box in the cupboard, but always thereafter he
carried the features of the strong, smiling face of his father in his
heart, and in his head a fixed determination to solve the mystery of
the strange words in the little black book.

At present he had more important business in hand, for his supply of
arrows was exhausted, and he must needs journey to the black men's
village and renew it.

Early the following morning he set out, and, traveling rapidly, he came
before midday to the clearing.  Once more he took up his position in
the great tree, and, as before, he saw the women in the fields and the
village street, and the cauldron of bubbling poison directly beneath
him.

For hours he lay awaiting his opportunity to drop down unseen and
gather up the arrows for which he had come; but nothing now occurred to
call the villagers away from their homes.  The day wore on, and still
Tarzan of the Apes crouched above the unsuspecting woman at the
cauldron.

Presently the workers in the fields returned.  The hunting warriors
emerged from the forest, and when all were within the palisade the
gates were closed and barred.

Many cooking pots were now in evidence about the village.  Before each
hut a woman presided over a boiling stew, while little cakes of
plantain, and cassava puddings were to be seen on every hand.

Suddenly there came a hail from the edge of the clearing.

Tarzan looked.

It was a party of belated hunters returning from the north, and among
them they half led, half carried a struggling animal.

As they approached the village the gates were thrown open to admit
them, and then, as the people saw the victim of the chase, a savage cry
rose to the heavens, for the quarry was a man.

As he was dragged, still resisting, into the village street, the women
and children set upon him with sticks and stones, and Tarzan of the
Apes, young and savage beast of the jungle, wondered at the cruel
brutality of his own kind.

Sheeta, the leopard, alone of all the jungle folk, tortured his prey.
The ethics of all the others meted a quick and merciful death to their
victims.

Tarzan had learned from his books but scattered fragments of the ways
of human beings.

When he had followed Kulonga through the forest he had expected to come
to a city of strange houses on wheels, puffing clouds of black smoke
from a huge tree stuck in the roof of one of them--or to a sea covered
with mighty floating buildings which he had learned were called,
variously, ships and boats and steamers and craft.

He had been sorely disappointed with the poor little village of the
blacks, hidden away in his own jungle, and with not a single house as
large as his own cabin upon the distant beach.

He saw that these people were more wicked than his own apes, and as
savage and cruel as Sabor, herself.  Tarzan began to hold his own kind
in low esteem.

Now they had tied their poor victim to a great post near the center of
the village, directly before Mbonga's hut, and here they formed a
dancing, yelling circle of warriors about him, alive with flashing
knives and menacing spears.

In a larger circle squatted the women, yelling and beating upon drums.
It reminded Tarzan of the Dum-Dum, and so he knew what to expect.  He
wondered if they would spring upon their meat while it was still alive.
The Apes did not do such things as that.

The circle of warriors about the cringing captive drew closer and
closer to their prey as they danced in wild and savage abandon to the
maddening music of the drums.  Presently a spear reached out and
pricked the victim.  It was the signal for fifty others.

Eyes, ears, arms and legs were pierced; every inch of the poor writhing
body that did not cover a vital organ became the target of the cruel
lancers.

The women and children shrieked their delight.

The warriors licked their hideous lips in anticipation of the feast to
come, and vied with one another in the savagery and loathsomeness of
the cruel indignities with which they tortured the still conscious
prisoner.

Then it was that Tarzan of the Apes saw his chance.  All eyes were
fixed upon the thrilling spectacle at the stake.  The light of day had
given place to the darkness of a moonless night, and only the fires in
the immediate vicinity of the orgy had been kept alight to cast a
restless glow upon the restless scene.

Gently the lithe boy dropped to the soft earth at the end of the
village street.  Quickly he gathered up the arrows--all of them this
time, for he had brought a number of long fibers to bind them into a
bundle.

Without haste he wrapped them securely, and then, ere he turned to
leave, the devil of capriciousness entered his heart.  He looked about
for some hint of a wild prank to play upon these strange, grotesque
creatures that they might be again aware of his presence among them.

Dropping his bundle of arrows at the foot of the tree, Tarzan crept
among the shadows at the side of the street until he came to the same
hut he had entered on the occasion of his first visit.

Inside all was darkness, but his groping hands soon found the object
for which he sought, and without further delay he turned again toward
the door.

He had taken but a step, however, ere his quick ear caught the sound of
approaching footsteps immediately without.  In another instant the
figure of a woman darkened the entrance of the hut.

Tarzan drew back silently to the far wall, and his hand sought the
long, keen hunting knife of his father.  The woman came quickly to the
center of the hut.  There she paused for an instant feeling about with
her hands for the thing she sought.  Evidently it was not in its
accustomed place, for she explored ever nearer and nearer the wall
where Tarzan stood.

So close was she now that the ape-man felt the animal warmth of her
naked body.  Up went the hunting knife, and then the woman turned to
one side and soon a guttural "ah" proclaimed that her search had at
last been successful.

Immediately she turned and left the hut, and as she passed through the
doorway Tarzan saw that she carried a cooking pot in her hand.

He followed closely after her, and as he reconnoitered from the shadows
of the doorway he saw that all the women of the village were hastening
to and from the various huts with pots and kettles.  These they were
filling with water and placing over a number of fires near the stake
where the dying victim now hung, an inert and bloody mass of suffering.

Choosing a moment when none seemed near, Tarzan hastened to his bundle
of arrows beneath the great tree at the end of the village street.  As
on the former occasion he overthrew the cauldron before leaping,
sinuous and catlike, into the lower branches of the forest giant.

Silently he climbed to a great height until he found a point where he
could look through a leafy opening upon the scene beneath him.

The women were now preparing the prisoner for their cooking pots, while
the men stood about resting after the fatigue of their mad revel.
Comparative quiet reigned in the village.

Tarzan raised aloft the thing he had pilfered from the hut, and, with
aim made true by years of fruit and coconut throwing, launched it
toward the group of savages.

Squarely among them it fell, striking one of the warriors full upon the
head and felling him to the ground.  Then it rolled among the women and
stopped beside the half-butchered thing they were preparing to feast
upon.

All gazed in consternation at it for an instant, and then, with one
accord, broke and ran for their huts.

It was a grinning human skull which looked up at them from the ground.
The dropping of the thing out of the open sky was a miracle well aimed
to work upon their superstitious fears.

Thus Tarzan of the Apes left them filled with terror at this new
manifestation of the presence of some unseen and unearthly evil power
which lurked in the forest about their village.

Later, when they discovered the overturned cauldron, and that once more
their arrows had been pilfered, it commenced to dawn upon them that
they had offended some great god by placing their village in this part
of the jungle without propitiating him.  From then on an offering of
food was daily placed below the great tree from whence the arrows had
disappeared in an effort to conciliate the mighty one.

But the seed of fear was deep sown, and had he but known it, Tarzan of
the Apes had laid the foundation for much future misery for himself and
his tribe.

That night he slept in the forest not far from the village, and early
the next morning set out slowly on his homeward march, hunting as he
traveled.  Only a few berries and an occasional grub worm rewarded his
search, and he was half famished when, looking up from a log he had
been rooting beneath, he saw Sabor, the lioness, standing in the center
of the trail not twenty paces from him.

The great yellow eyes were fixed upon him with a wicked and baleful
gleam, and the red tongue licked the longing lips as Sabor crouched,
worming her stealthy way with belly flattened against the earth.

Tarzan did not attempt to escape.  He welcomed the opportunity for
which, in fact, he had been searching for days past, now that he was
armed with something more than a rope of grass.

Quickly he unslung his bow and fitted a well-daubed arrow, and as Sabor
sprang, the tiny missile leaped to meet her in mid-air.  At the same
instant Tarzan of the Apes jumped to one side, and as the great cat
struck the ground beyond him another death-tipped arrow sunk deep into
Sabor's loin.

With a mighty roar the beast turned and charged once more, only to be
met with a third arrow full in one eye; but this time she was too close
to the ape-man for the latter to sidestep the onrushing body.

Tarzan of the Apes went down beneath the great body of his enemy, but
with gleaming knife drawn and striking home.  For a moment they lay
there, and then Tarzan realized that the inert mass lying upon him was
beyond power ever again to injure man or ape.

With difficulty he wriggled from beneath the great weight, and as he
stood erect and gazed down upon the trophy of his skill, a mighty wave
of exultation swept over him.

With swelling breast, he placed a foot upon the body of his powerful
enemy, and throwing back his fine young head, roared out the awful
challenge of the victorious bull ape.

The forest echoed to the savage and triumphant paean.  Birds fell
still, and the larger animals and beasts of prey slunk stealthily away,
for few there were of all the jungle who sought for trouble with the
great anthropoids.

And in London another Lord Greystoke was speaking to HIS kind in the
House of Lords, but none trembled at the sound of his soft voice.

Sabor proved unsavory eating even to Tarzan of the Apes, but hunger
served as a most efficacious disguise to toughness and rank taste, and
ere long, with well-filled stomach, the ape-man was ready to sleep
again.  First, however, he must remove the hide, for it was as much for
this as for any other purpose that he had desired to destroy Sabor.

Deftly he removed the great pelt, for he had practiced often on smaller
animals.  When the task was finished he carried his trophy to the fork
of a high tree, and there, curling himself securely in a crotch, he
fell into deep and dreamless slumber.

What with loss of sleep, arduous exercise, and a full belly, Tarzan of
the Apes slept the sun around, awakening about noon of the following
day.  He straightway repaired to the carcass of Sabor, but was angered
to find the bones picked clean by other hungry denizens of the jungle.

Half an hour's leisurely progress through the forest brought to sight a
young deer, and before the little creature knew that an enemy was near
a tiny arrow had lodged in its neck.

So quickly the virus worked that at the end of a dozen leaps the deer
plunged headlong into the undergrowth, dead.  Again did Tarzan feast
well, but this time he did not sleep.

Instead, he hastened on toward the point where he had left the tribe,
and when he had found them proudly exhibited the skin of Sabor, the
lioness.

"Look!" he cried, "Apes of Kerchak.  See what Tarzan, the mighty
killer, has done.  Who else among you has ever killed one of Numa's
people?  Tarzan is mightiest amongst you for Tarzan is no ape.  Tarzan
is--"  But here he stopped, for in the language of the anthropoids
there was no word for man, and Tarzan could only write the word in
English; he could not pronounce it.

The tribe had gathered about to look upon the proof of his wondrous
prowess, and to listen to his words.

Only Kerchak hung back, nursing his hatred and his rage.

Suddenly something snapped in the wicked little brain of the
anthropoid.  With a frightful roar the great beast sprang among the
assemblage.

Biting, and striking with his huge hands, he killed and maimed a dozen
ere the balance could escape to the upper terraces of the forest.

Frothing and shrieking in the insanity of his fury, Kerchak looked
about for the object of his greatest hatred, and there, upon a near-by
limb, he saw him sitting.

"Come down, Tarzan, great killer," cried Kerchak.  "Come down and feel
the fangs of a greater!  Do mighty fighters fly to the trees at the
first approach of danger?"  And then Kerchak emitted the volleying
challenge of his kind.

Quietly Tarzan dropped to the ground.  Breathlessly the tribe watched
from their lofty perches as Kerchak, still roaring, charged the
relatively puny figure.

Nearly seven feet stood Kerchak on his short legs.  His enormous
shoulders were bunched and rounded with huge muscles.  The back of his
short neck was as a single lump of iron sinew which bulged beyond the
base of his skull, so that his head seemed like a small ball protruding
from a huge mountain of flesh.

His back-drawn, snarling lips exposed his great fighting fangs, and his
little, wicked, blood-shot eyes gleamed in horrid reflection of his
madness.

Awaiting him stood Tarzan, himself a mighty muscled animal, but his six
feet of height and his great rolling sinews seemed pitifully inadequate
to the ordeal which awaited them.

His bow and arrows lay some distance away where he had dropped them
while showing Sabor's hide to his fellow apes, so that he confronted
Kerchak now with only his hunting knife and his superior intellect to
offset the ferocious strength of his enemy.

As his antagonist came roaring toward him, Lord Greystoke tore his long
knife from its sheath, and with an answering challenge as horrid and
bloodcurdling as that of the beast he faced, rushed swiftly to meet the
attack.  He was too shrewd to allow those long hairy arms to encircle
him, and just as their bodies were about to crash together, Tarzan of
the Apes grasped one of the huge wrists of his assailant, and,
springing lightly to one side, drove his knife to the hilt into
Kerchak's body, below the heart.

Before he could wrench the blade free again, the bull's quick lunge to
seize him in those awful arms had torn the weapon from Tarzan's grasp.

Kerchak aimed a terrific blow at the ape-man's head with the flat of
his hand, a blow which, had it landed, might easily have crushed in the
side of Tarzan's skull.

The man was too quick, and, ducking beneath it, himself delivered a
mighty one, with clenched fist, in the pit of Kerchak's stomach.

The ape was staggered, and what with the mortal wound in his side had
almost collapsed, when, with one mighty effort he rallied for an
instant--just long enough to enable him to wrest his arm free from
Tarzan's grasp and close in a terrific clinch with his wiry opponent.

Straining the ape-man close to him, his great jaws sought Tarzan's
throat, but the young lord's sinewy fingers were at Kerchak's own
before the cruel fangs could close on the sleek brown skin.

Thus they struggled, the one to crush out his opponent's life with
those awful teeth, the other to close forever the windpipe beneath his
strong grasp while he held the snarling mouth from him.

The greater strength of the ape was slowly prevailing, and the teeth of
the straining beast were scarce an inch from Tarzan's throat when, with
a shuddering tremor, the great body stiffened for an instant and then
sank limply to the ground.

